#summary Guide to setting up the development environment for extending and/or customizing Open eSignForms.

= Introduction =

This guide walks you step-by-step to setting up the programming environment for developing Open eSignForms. Updated for Java 8.


This guide assumes you will be developing on a Microsoft Windows operating system.


= Setup the Environment =

== Eclipse IDE ==
  * We recommend using Eclipse IDE although these instructions should work for other IDE systems (eg. Netbeans) as well.
   # [https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/ Download and Install Eclipse IDE for Java EE Developers]. We are using Eclipse Kepler version 4.3.2 (the latest available at this time of writing).
   # Unzip all files to C:\Program Files

=== Configure the IDE ===

* Launch the software from the install directory
  # C:\Program Files\eclipse\eclipse.exe
  # Set Workspace to C:\project
  # Check the box _use this as the default and do not ask again_
http://www.apache.org/dist/ant/ivyde/updatesite
== Java 8 ==
  * Install the latest version of the Java SE Development kit.
   # Download Java SE Development Kit 8 (JDK 8) from Oracle's website.
   # Download Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) Unlimited Strength Jurisdiction Policy Files 
   # Extract the two jar files into C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0\jre\lib\security folder, overwriting the files presently there.
   # Extract the two jar files into C:\Program Files\Java\jre8\lib\security. Overwriting the files presently there.


== Cygwin ==

  * Perform a fresh install by running the setup program.
   # When prompted, choose a download source "Install from Internet"
   # We recommend leaving the default install directory *C:\cygwin64* if you are installing on a 64-bit system.
   # Change the local package directory to *C:\packages*
   # Choose a download site (we recommend staying away from .jp domain names or similar unless you live in that country)
   # Click next on the select packages screen
   # Let the install process resolve any dependencies and click next

== PostgreSQL ==

  * Download the graphical installer
   # Leave the default install drectory as C:\Program Files\PostgreSQL\9.3
   # Leave the default data directory as C:\Program Files\PostgreSQL\9.3\data
   # If you will only be developing Open eSignForms go ahead and type *esignforms* as the postgres database superuser password.
   # Leave the default of *5432* as the port number the server should listen on
   # Leave the default locale as *[Default locale]*
   # *Uncheck* the checkbox to "launch Stack Builder at exit". 