#summary Point & Click Programming Guide for Open eSignForms

<table width="100%"><tr>
<td width="50%">http://open.esignforms.com/images/OpenESignFormsLogo.gif</td>
<td width="50%" align="right">http://www.yozons.com/images/logoSmall.gif</td>
</tr></table>

==== How-To Guides ====
  * [HowToGuides Concepts, Tips & Tricks] (Read first)
  * [UserGuide User's Guide] (Read first)
  * [SystemAdminGuide System Administrator's Guide]
  * *[ProgrammingGuide Point & Click Programming Guide]* (this guide)

==== Table of contents ====
<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

----
<h1>Point & Click Programming Guide</h1>
----

All customization and programming of documents, workflows and emails is done through the web-based interface. *No programmers are needed.* For those who prefer to have professional help, though, Yozons has partnered with other companies that offer professional services to handle all of your needs, or perhaps to get you started so that you can then just make new versions as necessary going forward.

The joy, power and control of Open eSignForm's Point & Click Programming is unique. Those who have outgrown the limitations of mass-marketed, one-size-fits-all alternatives will be favorably impressed by our alternative. 

Open eSignForms is based on over 10 years of developing hand-coded (in Java and JSP), custom electronic signature and electronic contracting solutions for thousands of customers across a wide range of verticals. It all started with GE Capital, then Schwab, Enterprise, Citrix, Pitney Bowes, several colleges and universities, and eventually a large number of financing companies, sales departments, HR departments, consulting and other small businesses. 

Even Yozons found it hard to keep a large group of dedicated, talented software professionals who could meet the growing demand for our custom-built solutions, and we charge $125 to $250 per hour. The only solution was to stop training yet another programmer, and instead focus on making customized solutions a do-it-yourself option, with no programming experience required.

<p align="right"><font size="1">[#Table_of_contents Table of contents]</font></p>

= Programming overview http://open.esignforms.com/images/HowToGuidesWiki/programmingIcon.png =

All programming is done by opening the Programming menu item, which includes links to the [#Libraries Libraries], [#Packages Packages], [#Transaction_Templates Transaction Templates] and [#Report_Templates Report Templates].

The general idea is that you create a library to hold all of your documents, images/logos, email templates, configurable properties and the like. If you have multiple independent companies or departments sharing the same system, you may want to have each work in their own libraries.

Then, once you have your documents ready, you create a package template that defines one or more documents that you want to process together. The package also specifies custom processing rules as well as defines the data fields from your documents that you allow to be included in custom reports.

Then, once your package is ready, you can create one or more transaction templates that will use the package. This gives you the opportunity to create multiple transactions using the same package, but with each specifying a distinct "branding library" that can override images/logos and property values, and each with distinct permissions.

And finally, you can build custom reports that specify which data fields to include for easy tracking, searching and control of transactions, as well as make available for download in Excel or CSV format.

<p align="right"><font size="1">[#Table_of_contents Table of contents]</font></p>

= Libraries =

<p align="right"><font size="1">[#Table_of_contents Table of contents]</font></p>

= Packages =

<p align="right"><font size="1">[#Table_of_contents Table of contents]</font></p>

= Transaction Templates =

<p align="right"><font size="1">[#Table_of_contents Table of contents]</font></p>

= Report Templates =

<p align="right"><font size="1">[#Table_of_contents Table of contents]</font></p>